Good afternoon, everyone,
and welcome to the talk
titled Developing and Porting
UNIX Applications for Mac OS X.
My name is Kevin Van Vechten,
and I'm the BSD team
manager here at Apple.
And today we're going to talk
a little bit about what's new
in Leopard at the UNIX layer.
And if you've heard in either
the State of Mac OS X speech
or some of the kernel speeches,
we've been making a lot of
changes about supporting UNIX 03,
and we'll go into quite some detail
about some of those changes and what
you can expect when you're compiling
your applications for Leopard.
So, like I just said,
this is about developing
on Mac OS X's UNIX layer,
and if you're either starting
new applications from scratch
or porting existing applications
from other UNIX systems,
I'll talk about some of the things
that are different and unique about
Mac OS X that you should try to
take advantage of on our platform.
We'll also cover the
new features in Leopard.
And to start that off, open source.
So virtually all of the UNIX layer
of Mac OS X is open source.
It's available at the URL up here,
developer.apple.com/opensource,
and then that links to a
bunch of different pages that
categorize it by each release.
And the majority of Apple's original
sources are published under the
Apple Public Source License 2.0,
which is both an open source
initiative-approved license
as well as a free software
foundation-approved license.
And there's lots of open
source for Mac OS X.
Since you are probably interested
in running common UNIX applications,
I just wanted to mention
Fink and DarwinPorts,
which are two projects
which have thousands of open
source packages available.
And actually,
DarwinPorts recently changed
their name to MacPorts.
So this URL is a little bit out of date,
but it'll still direct
you to the right place.
So on Mac OS X, there are many different
layers to the system.
At the bottom of this graph here
is this big red area called Kernel.
Well, we're not going to talk
about the Kernel much today,
but we will talk about the UNIX layer
that's immediately above it.
And then the things
higher up on the stack,
Core Foundation, Carbon, and Cocoa,
again, are higher level than we are
going to talk about today.
But all of these things are available
for your applications to use.
So,
what's new in the UNIX layer on Mac OS X?
Well, we have native DLopen and DLSim.
Historically,
Mac OS X didn't have these APIs.
They were added in, and now in Leopard,
that's actually the official API you
should be using when you want to
dynamically load a bundle or a library.
We also have native pull in the kernel.
It's no longer emulated
in terms of select.
We have KQs, K events.
Starting in Tiger,
we had get and set extended
attributes on files.
Now we have a lot more 64-bit API.
In Tiger,
it was just lib system that was 64-bit,
and Leopard, a lot of our open source
libraries are fully 64-bit.
There's also more
integration with LaunchD,
which was introduced in Tiger.
To the extent now in Leopard,
there's not even a net CRC script,
so there's a lot of things
that are changing in startup.
And like I said earlier,
there's a lot of changes
for UNIX03 behavior,
both at the command line and
at the API layer in lib system.
There's also a lot new at the UNIX layer
that isn't going to be covered today,
but there have been other sessions
and maybe still will be about things
like toll-free bridging between
scripting languages in Cocoa,
Ruby on Rails,
and we updated to Apache 2.0.
So to get started with Mac OS X, well,
startup's quite a bit different
than other UNIX systems.
There are no System 5 run levels.
There's not even an ETSI RC script.
We do still have ETSI RC.local
for some site-specific actions
you can run at boot time.
But we're really trying to move away
from the scripted idea of startup
and move to a much more dynamic
on-demand way to start things,
and there'll actually be
a session in this room,
the next session, on LaunchD,
which would be very interesting
if you're concerned with the boot
up of the system or just managing
your UNIX processes in general.
On Mac OS X, HFS, our file system,
is case-insensitive but case-preserving.
This is a big difference
from most other UNIX systems.
However, there is a case-sensitive
variation called HFSX,
which you can use to format a
separate partition on your drive.
Or you can even use it
as your boot partition.
In the disk utility in the installer,
it's possible to select a
case-sensitive file system.
We have multiple forks on HFS.
So there's a resource fork,
there's extended attributes.
When you're copying files around,
you need to take care to preserve
those in your applications.
And there's an API that
will help you do that,
which I'll talk about a little bit later.
HFS, unfortunately,
doesn't have any sparse file support,
which is something that's commonly
used on other UNIX systems.
And also, starting in Leopard,
the old UNIX file system
has been deprecated.
So if you need the case sensitivity,
you really need to use HFSX now.
It's not possible to use UFS anymore.
So on Mac OS X we organize things into
the file system hierarchy that you've
probably seen on other UNIX systems.
We have /bin/dev/user,
but only visible in the terminal
application on the command line
or when you SSH into the machine.
These directories are not visible
by default when you use the finder.
So this is really kind of the
UNIX support layer of the system,
but we don't try to
expose this to the users.
Another thing to point out is
Apple doesn't ship anything
in the user local directory.
So if you're an administrator,
you can use that directory for all
the software you install in your
site that's custom to your machines.
And of course this is all documented
in the hierarchy man page.
Mac OS X has a new concept, though,
that's different from other UNIX systems,
and that's a file system domains.
And file system domains really
represent a search path for
resources on the system.
There's the user domain,
the local domain, the network domain,
and the system domain.
And there's an API for iterating
over these domains in the
NSSystemDirectories.h header file.
And really,
this is the order of preference where
when the system's looking for a resource,
it'll try each of these in order
and see if it can find what
the application's looking for.
So the system domain is really
for Mac OS X system software.
And effectively, you should treat it as
being a read-only directory.
Your application shouldn't be
installing things into /system.
That should be the domain of
the OS installs from either
a CD or a software update.
But the notable exception to this,
of course, is that kernel extensions,
since they are extending the
underlying system itself,
do need to go into the /system domain.
The network domain is where
all of the NFS or other
network shares are presented,
and it's a place where you can
put site-wide configurations and
applications so that they're accessible
to all the machines at a given site.
The local domain is a bunch of
resources that are stored on a single
computer that are visible to every
user who's logged into that computer.
This is where a lot of the power
management settings for the machine go.
And then finally there's the user domain,
which is the user's home directory.
And the home directory can contain
all of the per user settings.
And they are only available
to the current user.
[Transcript missing]
So what is the structure of these
individual resources that we do
store in each of the domains?
Well, we call them bundles.
Bundles in the Finder
appear as a single icon.
They're really file system directories,
though, that can contain many files.
And they usually have an
extension to indicate what
type of resource the bundle is.
A very common one is .app,
which your applications will often have.
.bundle is kind of a generic bundle.
.plugin would be a code plugin.
Dot framework is kind
of a shared library,
dynamic library.
The APIs for accessing
bundles at the UNIX layer,
well, there's really nothing that
is specific toward bundles.
You either need to use the
POSIX open or read or write,
close, standard file I/O.
And there's also the File Traversal API,
FTS, which you can use to enumerate
what's inside of a bundle.
But up at a higher layer,
Core Foundation and Cocoa,
there are actually APIs for
manipulating bundles in terms of URLs.
And they can also help you find
resources inside of a bundle.
The generic structure of a bundle is
that there's a contents directory,
and then under that,
there's a resources directory.
And that's where things may be like
graphics or sounds or movies or other
resources that you want to aggregate with
your application or with your library.
So frameworks are really
dynamic libraries that are
packaged up as a bundle.
And this is a concept that's
pretty unique to Mac OS X.
A framework will have
the dynamic library.
It'll have header files that
are associated with the library.
So instead of looking in user
include for header files,
it'll actually be inside the framework.
And there's some GCC extensions
that accommodate this.
Inside your source code,
you can do pound include and then the
name of a framework slash the name
of a header inside the framework.
And actually, GCC knows where to find the
frameworks on the system.
And it'll pick that particular
header out of the framework.
So even though you won't find
this path anywhere in user
include or user local include,
it'll find it in the framework path.
There's a couple flags you can
use on GCC to accomplish this,
the first of which is dash capital F,
which is similar to the dash
capital L or dash capital
I flags in GCC on other systems.
And those, of course,
change the default search path for
libraries and header files on the system.
Well,
dash capital F really changes both of
those concurrently so that the linker
will find the dynamic library portion
of the framework and the headers of
the framework at compile and link time.
And then to include a specific
framework in your application,
dash framework is the
option you should pass.
And this is really analogous to dash
L on other systems for linking a
dynamic library into your application.
So there are some notable
frameworks on Mac OS X that
provide a lot of the functionality
at the basic layers of the system.
Some of these are directory service,
disk arbitration, I/O Kit, security,
and system configuration.
And I'll go into a little bit
more detail on what each of these
do and why you might want to
use them in your applications.
Another big difference about Mac OS X is
that we use the Maco file format.
This is our executable file format.
It's roughly analogous to ELF.
I mean,
they're semantically pretty similar.
Or, sorry, syntactically pretty similar,
but there are a few semantic
differences that you should be aware of.
One is Maco supports universal binaries,
and universal binaries are one
file with many architectures.
So it would be possible
to have a file that,
say, has a PowerPC,
PowerPC 64 architectures
inside of the single file.
Really,
up to all four of these architectures
could be in a single file.
And Mac OS also has
the concept of bundles,
which are distinct from libraries.
And the idea behind a bundle is
that a bundle is intended to be
loaded by a particular application.
It's really more of a plug-in than just a
library that could be linked by anything.
And what this allows
is inside your bundle,
the linker can resolve up
calls into the application,
since you know those symbols
will be provided at runtime.
And so if you compile using GCC and
specify -bundle and -bundle-loader
in the path to the application that's
responsible for loading the bundle,
the linker can resolve these symbols
at link time and enforce that,
yes, these will be present at runtime.
Whereas a library,
since you don't know specifically
who's going to be using your library,
you aren't generally
allowed to make up calls.
Mako also supports two-level namespaces.
So in a lot of commercial applications,
plugins are written by a
variety of third parties.
And you don't necessarily control
the namespace of what symbols
are used in each of the plugins.
And you wouldn't want them
to conflict with one another.
Well, the two-level namespace means that
each bundle gets its own sub-namespace
and won't conflict with each other.
So your third-party developers can have
a lot more flexibility in implementing
plugins for your application.
So going back to universal
binaries for a moment,
again, the idea behind universal binaries
is you have the same set of sources
that produce the same binary,
but it can run on many
different architectures.
And this is accomplished by
passing the -arch flag to GCC.
So in this example,
we're compiling something with four
different architectures-- PowerPC,
Intel, and 64-bit for each of those.
Now, sometimes your code does need to
behave a little bit differently based
on which architecture you're on.
And the right way to deal with that is
to look for the preprocessor macros.
Usually, the difference is only going
to be whether you're expecting
memory to be laid out in a
big-endian or little-endian format,
so defining your
C structures and whatnot.
So you can test for the big-endian
or little-endian preprocessor macros,
and that will help you lay out your data.
Also,
if you need to know the size of pointers,
you can test for the
LP64 preprocessor macro.
And of course, R64.
But the big-endian is 64-bit,
which means that all of the types have
the same size as they historically did,
except longs and pointers
are now 64 bits long.
So an int is still 32 bits,
but a long is 64 bits.
And then if you're doing anything
with actual assembly code and you
really do need to know specifically
which architecture you're targeting,
not just the general
features of the architecture,
you can test for one of
these individual macros,
whether it's PPC or PPC64, R386 or X8664.
So another important hint is to
always use GCC as your linker driver.
When you want to create a
library or an executable,
really you should let GCC go ahead
and create that final result and
not rely on invoking LD directly.
For one reason,
there's two different linkers.
There's LD and LD64,
and you don't want to have to
manage which one's the right one
to use and which circumstances.
And so basically,
it can lead to incorrect results
if you try to do the linking
manually for universal binaries.
And we really recommend
using the GCC linker driver.
So the dynamic linker on
Mac OS X is known as DYLD.
And as I mentioned before,
DLopen is the native API to use
for dynamically loading extra
bundles into your application.
DLopen compatibility was
introduced in Panther,
which became native in Tiger,
and now in Leopard really
is the preferred solution.
So the other API for loading
in Maco bundles is deprecated,
and you should be using DLopen.
It's also possible to get DLopen
functionality on 10.2 using the DLopen,
I'm sorry, the DLcompat library.
So if your application needs to work
all the way back on older systems,
you're going to have to investigate a
way to use this compatibility library.
And there's some details about that
in technical Q&A article QA 1180.
So I'm going to dive down into the
Mac OS X API now and talk a little
bit about those frameworks that
I highlighted earlier and why you might
want to use them in your applications.
So there's the main
library on the system,
userlib/libsystem.
And that contains basically all
of the UNIX and POSIX APIs that
you'd find on other systems.
It's a single library.
We have symlinks and userlib so
that you don't have to change all
of your make files in most cases.
So if you're used to link against
libm or libdl or libpthread,
well, those symlinks will all
resolve into libsystem.
But really, on Mac OS X,
all of those libraries are
concatenated into one big library.
Directory service is a framework.
It's unique to Mac OS X.
And it also works in combination
with some of our info APIs,
getAddrInfo, getPwInt, getGrInt.
So when you're looking up user group
or host information on Mac OS X,
it actually communicates
behind the scenes with the
Directory Service Framework to get the
information from a variety of sources,
whether that's locally on the machine,
from LDAP, from Active Directory,
or from Bonjour,
which means that while on other systems,
a lot of times it's necessary
to maybe establish a specific
connection to LDAP to get
information out of the LDAP server.
On Mac OS X,
that's all handled transparently.
If you do a standard group
lookup or user lookup,
it'll grab the information from LDAP if
the machine's configured to use LDAP.
Another big change in Leopard is that
Directory Service subsumed LookupD.
So in past releases of Mac OS X,
LookupD was a daemon that handled
caching all of this information.
But now that's been consolidated
into Directory Service,
and that one daemon handles
all of the user group and
domain lookups on the system.
The transition away from NetInfo
will actually be complete in Leopard.
We've been moving that direction
over the past several releases,
but the big push is in Leopard,
and we do not expect to have NetInfo
shipping when Leopard's final.
This means that NetInfoD, NICL,
and iUtil, the two utilities you use
for manipulating NetInfo,
won't be found on Leopard.
And so you need to migrate all
of the scripts and application
usage of these commands over to
use a new command called DSCL.
Now, DSCL has been present on the system,
I believe, ever since 10.3.
So you do have a backward compatibility.
You know, you can switch over to this
and your application will
still run on older systems.
But again, NICL and iUtil won't be
around when Leopard ships.
There's also some alternative graphical
methods for changing the user and
group information on the system.
You need to enable the root user,
if that's something you want to do,
in the directory utility application,
which is found in the utilities folder.
Or, now you can control-click the list of
users in the accounts preference panel.
And by control-clicking a user,
it'll bring up an advanced panel
where you can set different
attributes like the UID of the user
or the default group of the user.
So the NetInfo Manager,
as you may have noticed,
is no longer present in the Leopard Seed.
Disk arbitration is a framework
which manages the appearance and
disappearance of disks on the system,
as well as the mounting and unmounting
of the logical volumes on those disks.
This is important, of course,
if you're going to be
dealing with external media.
And also, disk arbitration can notify
your application via callbacks
when these events occur.
And we really do encourage
a callback model,
not a polling model, for applications.
So you should be using these
frameworks to register for the events,
and then you'll be notified
when something of interest
happens to your application.
I/O Kit is our framework for dealing
with low-level device drivers.
It's really a more complete view
into the hardware of the system
than you can get from SlashDev.
We do have a SlashDev,
which has a lot of the common devices
you would see on other UNIX systems,
but it's a subset of the
hardware that's available,
and I don't believe there's
any way to get to some
hardware through DashDev alone.
You really need to use
I/O Kit to get a complete view.
And once again,
I/O Kit does offer callbacks,
so you can register for notification
when devices appear and disappear on the
system and deal with that interactively.
The Security Framework is API for
managing authorization credentials,
whether that's passwords
to your mail server,
to a website,
or anything else you might need to
store a password or a private key for.
The Security Framework does encrypt
this information in the key chain,
which means it's a safe place to
store your sensitive information.
And it also has another half to it,
which is the Authorization API,
which helps you decide which
users are authorized to perform
which tasks on the system.
And it's a rights-based system.
It's something that will prompt the
user for a password if the user isn't
currently authenticated with the system.
And it also allows for
administrator control.
It's possible to override the
default settings as to which users
are allowed to perform which rights.
So instead of making your application,
say, a set UID executable or kind of
hard-coding privilege based on the
UID or the GID of the application,
we'd really encourage you
to use the security API.
Specifically,
the authorization API they're in.
And go for a rights-based system that
will allow finer-grained control of
what users are allowed to perform
which activities on the system.
The System Configuration Framework is an
API that lets you read and set different
machine-specific configuration settings,
whether that's power management
settings for the machine,
or also we have network settings
that are affected by this.
One of the big APIs we have
is the Reachability API,
and this is a high-level mechanism
for you to determine whether a certain
network address is routable or not.
It doesn't actually go out and
attempt to connect to the address,
but it makes a best guess as to
whether it's even worth trying
to connect to that machine.
So it can see, for example, that, oh,
there aren't any Ethernet
interfaces currently configured,
or there's no wireless available.
But when one of these comes online,
you can register for a callback again
and get notifications of network state
changes to decide whether you should
re-evaluate your network connections,
see if there's any connections that
no longer make sense to maintain,
or whether you should perhaps, you know,
try to re-initiate a connection
you previously had because the
network's come back online.
And this is a key part of
mobility-aware applications.
As I'm sure you know,
a very large percentage of the
hardware that Apple sells is portable,
and portables tend to change their
network environment very frequently.
And so it's really great when
applications can take advantage
of this to be more adaptive
of changes in the network.
Another API we offer on
Mac OS X is the Notify API.
And this is a simple,
lightweight notification mechanism
that's really analogous to UNIX signals.
It has multiple delivery
mechanisms in your code.
You can either select
on a file descriptor,
and when that file
descriptor becomes readable,
that means you have a
notification pending.
You can also receive
notifications via Mach ports,
so it can tie into your run loop.
UNIX signals can be used
to deliver notifications,
as well as you can just
do synchronous polling,
though of course we
discourage you to do that.
But the notification mechanism,
basically it's a named string.
That's the notification.
And if multiple
notifications are received,
they all get consolidated
into one event that's raised,
the same way that a
UNIX signal would behave.
But there's a much larger
namespace with notifications
than there are with UNIX signals.
So this is why it's our
preferred mechanism for sending
information between processes.
So instead of sending a
SIGTERM or a SIG-- well,
I guess a SIGHUP is what I meant to say.
Instead of sending a SIGHUP to
an application to let it know to
reload its configuration files,
we'd really rather send a
specific notification that meant
reload your configuration files,
instead of overloading the
terminology of what a SIGHUP means.
So you can see information
about Notify in the notify.h
header file in user include.
Another new API which we've made
public for Leopard is Copyfile.
And Copyfile is an API that lets
you deal with extended attributes.
It will automatically
create Apple double files.
Apple double files, I'm sure you've seen,
are the dot underbar files that contain
resource fork and extended attribute
information on file systems which do not
support extended attributes natively.
So, for example,
if you have a sample JPEG that you've
written an EA to and copy it over to,
say,
an NFS volume that's backed by something
that doesn't support extended attributes,
you'll see a dot
underbar sample dot JPEG.
Well, Copyfile takes care of all the
details of splitting the single
file into two different files.
And it'll also take care of all
the details of taking those two
files and reconsolidating them
into a single file when you copy
back to a file system like HFS.
And this is what we use by CP, MV,
and HFS.
And you should look in user include
copyfile.h for details on using this API.
Another thing I wanted to
mention is for a while now
we've supported X11 on Mac OS X.
Probably the most important
thing to keep in mind is that
this is an optional install.
Not all Mac OS X installations
will have X11,
so it's something you really should
be testing for in your application
so you can gracefully handle
whether or not X11 is present.
Now I'm going to talk a
little bit about Xcode,
which is our developer tools.
Xcode is also an optional install.
So not every Mac OS X system
out there has a C compiler,
which is quite a bit different
than most other UNIXes.
Usually you can assume that there
will be a C compiler on the system,
but on Mac OS X this isn't
necessarily the case.
Xcode is based largely
on the GNU tool chain.
There's a lot of common utilities
that you'll see elsewhere-- GCC,
GDB, Make, GLIB Tool, AutoConf, Automake.
And there's a very large list,
and it's fairly standard stuff.
But there are some differences about
how we develop our software and how we'd
like you to develop software on Mac OS X.
The main difference is SDKs.
SDKs are a collection of headers and
libraries for a particular release,
and they're all bundled
up in an SDK directory.
And you can have several
SDKs installed on the system.
And by selecting a particular
SDK to compile against,
you're indicating which features
of the operating system the
software should be using.
So for example,
you may be running on a Leopard system,
but you want your
software to work on Tiger.
Well, you'd need to use the
Mac OS 10.4 SDK to do that.
SDKs are also necessary
for universal binaries.
I'm sure you've seen a lot of
literature on universal binaries.
Well, most PowerPC systems out there,
they don't have any Intel architectures
in the dynamic libraries,
so linking will fail unless
you're actually using the
SDK to compile your application.
SDKs are accomplished by some
GCC and Linker extensions.
The first extension is --i sysroot,
which sets the SDK root,
and basically whenever a
header file is looked up or a
dynamic library is looked for,
this path is prepended to
the paths that are opened,
and so you're really limiting your
search to the Mac OS SDK that was chosen.
And there's also a similar Linker flag,
the --syslibroot flag,
which again tells the Linker that
it should only be looking for
libraries inside of this SDK.
Something very closely related
to SDKs is deployment targets.
And deployment targets let you declare
what your target environment is.
So for example,
you can declare that the minimum
version of Mac OS X that you would
like this application to run on is,
say, Mac OS 10.4.
And this will provide some
temporal scoping of the
symbols in the header files.
So functions which have not yet been
declared in 10.4-- maybe they're new
in 10.5-- they won't appear in the
header files when you specify this flag.
On the other hand,
if something that was used in
10.2 and was used in 10.3 and
has now been deprecated in 10.4,
since you're setting your
minimum version to a system
that has the deprecated symbols,
it'll actually give
you a warning and say,
you really shouldn't be
using these symbols anymore.
You should use this new API that we have.
Those are really legacy interfaces.
And this used to be done by
setting the Mac OS X deployment
target environment variable,
but now you should be using this
-m macosx-version-min GCC argument.
But they both really
have the same net result.
And you can look in the availability
macros header file to see what all
the different preprocessor macros
are for warning you about deprecated
interfaces or scoping interfaces
that haven't been defined yet in that
particular version of the system.
So GCC has also changed in
Tiger and in Leopard now.
GCC 4 is used more predominantly.
And GCC 4 has support
for 128-bit long doubles.
In earlier versions of GCC,
long doubles were only 64-bit.
And since a lot of standard I/O and other
lib system interfaces used long doubles,
we had to pull some tricks to maintain
compatibility with older applications,
which were compiled with 64-bit long
double support and new applications
compiled with GCC 4 that have
128-bit long double support.
And the system and compiler decides
which of these to choose based on
that Mac OS X deployment target that
I was talking about a moment ago.
So if your deployment target is greater
than 10.4 and you're using GCC4,
then functions with long double
arguments will get suffixed
with $LDBL128 behind the scenes.
You don't need to do
it in your source code,
but it happens.
And if you were to do a dump of
all the symbols in your executable,
you'd actually see this.
Now what this means is applications
compiled in this way won't work
on earlier versions of Mac OS X.
Like,
you wouldn't really be able to run this,
say, on Jaguar.
However, when the deployment target
is set to below 10.4 on
applications compiled with GCC4,
then it's set to $LONG-DOUBLE-STUB,
and that causes some
magic to get invoked,
and this actually gives you
compatibility back toward Mac OS 10.3.9,
but I don't think it'll
work on any earlier systems.
So really,
if you're compiling using GCC4,
you should be targeting 10.3.9 or later.
And also, in this case,
the GCC linker driver will implicitly
link in the system stub's static archive,
which has the magic for
that LONG-DOUBLE-STUB,
which is another reason why you should
be using the GCC linker drivers,
because a lot of times the GCC linker
driver has some smarts like this
in it that wouldn't be immediately
obvious if you were to try to link
object files together yourself.
So, I'd like to take the rest of the
time of the talk to talk about what
we've changed to support UNIX 03
in the UNIX layer of Mac OS X.
We are more standards compliant than
we had been in previous releases,
which hopefully will make it easier for
you to port UNIX software to Mac OS X.
However, this did have some impact on
source and binary compatibility,
and I'll talk about how we addressed
this impact and what you need to
look out for in your applications.
First,
a brief discussion of the commands.
Some of the command line tools
have changed their arguments and
how they behave based on what's
required by the UNIX03 specification.
UNIX03 behavior is the
default in Leopard,
but the prior behavior was
kept when it didn't conflict.
So a great example of
this is the PS command.
The UNIX03 standard only dictates
what happens when PS is invoked with a
dash before the rest of its arguments.
So in that case, if you do, say, -u,
that has the UNIX03 behavior,
whereas if you were relying on
the old BSD behavior before,
if you omit the dash,
it continues to do the BSD behavior
if you just were to do,
say, PSu.
You can also disable the UNIX03
behavior by setting a command
mode environment variable.
The command mode is unset,
but the default is equivalent
to being set to UNIX 2003.
However, if you were to set the
command mode to legacy,
then it will hopefully disable all of the
new changes in the command line tools,
and the command line tools will
continue to parse their arguments
like they did on Tiger and on
earlier versions of the system.
For source compatibility,
there's a global flag,
this Darwin UNIX03 preprocessor macro.
And this flag is on by
default for Leopard.
So if you're compiling
your software for Leopard,
you will get the interfaces
that are UNIX03 compliant.
I should point out that the 64-bit
libraries on Leopard have this
flag on implicitly by default.
There is no legacy non-UNIX03
[Transcript missing]
However,
in order to maintain compatibility
for your applications that you
might be building on Leopard but
want to deploy on Tiger or Panther,
we will have this off by
default if you're either using,
say, the 10.4 SDK or the 10.3 SDK.
Or if you've set the Mac OS X deployment
target to one of those earlier versions,
it will disable the Darwin UNIX 03 macro,
and you'll get the legacy behavior.
And if you're looking for what
this macro actually does and
where it's defined and tested for,
that's in the sys.cdefs.h header file.
So it's also important to notice that
we're doing the same type of trick.
We're doing the $UNIX2003
at the end of a symbol,
which is put there by a preprocessor
macro in the header files.
What this means is implicit declarations
of functions do not get this suffix.
And if you are relying on an
implicit declaration of a function,
you might end up using the legacy
version of the function unintentionally
and mix and match legacy and
non-legacy functions in your code.
So it's very important that
you do include all the header
files that are needed to declare
the various APIs that you use.
And the best way to accomplish this
is to warn on missing prototypes.
So there's some GCC commands
that I've listed,
"-w all "-w missing prototypes".
And if you use those when
compiling this example,
it will warn you that there is an
implicit declaration of some commands.
And say, of some functions,
putenv and getenv.
And the right thing to do is include the
header file which these are found in.
I believe in this case,
that would be the unistd.h header file.
And then you will get the right
suffixing through the preprocessor logic.
So it's also possible to
opt out of Darwin UNIX 03.
When you're compiling on Leopard,
so you have a 10.5 deployment target,
and you also define this
non-standard source macro,
it'll actually opt you out
of the UNIX 03 behavior.
However, non-standard source is
not available on 64-bit,
because like I said,
64-bit has been UNIX 03
since the beginning,
so there's no way to
disable that behavior.
That's the only behavior
that's available.
As far as binary
compatibility is concerned,
all applications compiled before
Leopard should remain unaffected
because they don't have any of these
new symbols that are being used by them.
All the functions that had
changed in behavior were suffixed
with $UNIX2003 internally.
And what this means is that an
application compiled on Leopard
that's run on Tiger might be using
some of these Darwin UNIX2003 symbols,
which aren't defined on
earlier versions of Mac OS X.
So it's not likely to run.
In this example here,
I'm trying to run an application
that was compiled on Leopard
back on a Panther machine,
and you'll see there's a
reference to an undefined symbol.
In this case,
it couldn't find the UNIX2003
version of the set env variable.
So this really makes it important to be
accurate in which Mac OS X deployment
target and which SDKs you use.
If you want your software to run
on earlier versions of Mac OS X,
you really need to be explicit about
declaring that during compile time.
So what are these
changes that we've made?
Why did we have to suffix the functions?
Well, one of the main changes is
that the error nodes change.
Things that historically succeeded
might now start returning errors,
because the UNIX03 standard is a little
bit more strict about what arguments
different functions can accept.
And you'll see some of the
stricter argument validation in
functions like mmap and select,
sigpause, setRlimit, and unsetenv.
It's also important to note that
the eop_not_sup and e_not_sup
erinos are now distinct values.
So eop_not_sup really
pertains to socket operations,
whereas e_not_sup is the more generic,
not supported erino.
In the past, we had those defined to
the same numeric value.
Now they're two distinct values.
And so most often,
you will need to change any occurrences
of eop_not_sup to e_not_sup in order
to test for that error condition.
Some of the other changes
include that fputs now returns
the number of characters
successfully written on success.
In the past, it had only returned zero.
Now it returns what characters
were actually written,
which means sometimes code that
was testing for zero will think
that the call failed when,
in fact, it really did succeed.
However,
in both the legacy and the new behavior,
they'll return negative one on error.
So really,
the correct thing to do is to test
for negative one as the result.
Another big change is that open
will now change the controlling
terminal of a process if you open a
device which is a terminal device.
And you can disable this by
passing the additional O underbar
no CTTY flag to open to say no,
do not change the controlling terminal
when opening a terminal device.
Another change we noticed that affected
a lot of programs was that putenv
no longer copies its input buffer.
This means that when you
pass a pointer to putenv,
it just puts that pointer
directly in the environment.
And if you ever subsequently
free or change that string,
it's going to change
it in the environment,
or it'll make the pointer
invalid if you free it.
This is actually consistent with
the behavior that's found on Linux.
So if you're porting
Linux applications to Mac OS X,
you shouldn't run into any problems here,
because that's how that's behaved.
But BSD systems historically
made a copy of the input buffer.
So you're going to need to either use
setenv if that's the behavior you want,
or make sure to manage
your buffers differently.
unsetenv changed as well.
It no longer parses the input string
looking for an embedded equals sign.
So if you have an equals
sign in your string now,
it actually interprets that as literally
part of the environment variable name,
and will look for that
environment variable.
The M-map changed.
The flags parameter now must specify
either map private or map shared.
Previously,
we allowed those to be omitted,
but you really must decide
between one or the other and
make sure that flag is specified.
The size of the region you're
M-mapping must not be 0,
and the offset needs to be a multiple
of the page size of the system.
And luckily,
there's an easy call you can make,
the sysconf with sc page size as a
constant will return the page size.
You need to make sure your
offsets are a multiple of that.
SigPause changed.
SigPause now takes a signal value,
not a signal mask.
And this is a little bit of a tricky one,
because sometimes you won't
notice a problem until runtime,
and sometimes not even then,
depending on what values
you're passing in.
But if you want to work with masks,
you really should be
using the SigSuspend API,
not SigPause.
Select now limits the number of file
descriptors that you can be waiting for.
They must not be greater
than the FD set size.
So you either need to use
a smaller number of file
descriptors when passing the,
you know, sorry.
You need to use a smaller
number of file descriptors on
the first argument of SELECT,
or you can define the Darwin Unlimited
SELECT preprocessor macro,
which will allow the
historic SELECT behavior.
Set RLimit no longer accepts some of
the values that it historically did.
For example, the number of files can no
longer be set to RLim infinity.
You need to now set it
to a specific value.
We'd recommend the minimum value of
either the OpenMax constant or the
RLimMax value that you currently have.
Set P group no longer
takes any arguments,
so you should use set PG ID instead.
And this is, again,
a thing that we would catch
very easily if you are including
the proper header file.
You'll see the prototypes mismatch.
But if you're relying on
an implicit declaration,
the compiler probably won't
warn you about this change.
And it would probably go unnoticed
because there would be some
extra arguments for the function,
but it wouldn't pay
attention to them and then,
of course, wouldn't behave as you
would expect it to.
There are some structure
changes to data structures.
Most notably,
the ucontext structure is now opaque.
So you should use the
ucontext_t structure,
which is defined in sys/ucontext.h.
And the IPC perm structure has
some members which were renamed.
So if you see compile time errors about
fields not existing in a structure,
it's likely related to
one of these two changes.
There are also some namespace conflicts.
We've changed things like port T and
port NULL to be prefixed with Mach.
So if you're working with Mach ports,
you're going to want to call it Mach port
T or Mach port NULL as your constant.
Now we've documented these
changes and we're continuing
to enhance our documentation,
so I encourage you if you've run into any
sort of compile time errors or runtime
errors that you weren't seeing before to
check out the man page for that function.
And in all cases we want to have
both the prototype of the new UNIX 03
conforming function and the legacy
function that you would find on historic
versions of Mac OS X in the man page.
So you can compare, see what's changed,
see what you need to do in
your program to adapt to that.
Again, if you're getting error no's
that you didn't use to get,
please check the man page,
see if there's an additional
restriction on some of the arguments
that you're passing into the function.
And when the changes were
relatively significant,
we're going to add in legacy
sections to the man page to discuss
in depth what the changes were.
So for more information,
you can always contact Ernie,
our product marketing contact.
And we also have a lot of notes
that are available linked to
this session on the ADC website,
so you can download some information
there that details some of the changes
that I've described in this session.
And we'll be keeping these notes
up to date as we run across more
issues in the development of Leopard.